                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AV-HuBERT LICENSE AGREEMENT

This License Agreement (as may be amended in accordance with this License
Agreement, “License”), between you (“Licensee” or “you”) and Meta Platforms,
Inc. (“Meta” or “we”) applies to your use of any computer program, algorithm,
source code, object code, or software that is made available by Meta under this
License (“Software”) and any specifications, manuals, documentation, and other
written information provided by Meta related to the Software (“Documentation”).

By clicking “I Accept” below or by using the Software, you agree to the terms
of this License. If you do not agree to this License, then you do not have any
rights to use the Software or Documentation (collectively, the “Software
Products”), and you must immediately cease using the Software Products.

1. LICENSE GRANT a. Subject to your compliance with the Documentation and
Sections 2, 3, and 5, Meta grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide,
non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable, royalty free and limited
license under Meta’s copyright interests to reproduce, distribute, and create
derivative works of the Software solely for your non-commercial research
purposes. The foregoing license is personal to you, and you may not assign or
sublicense this License or any other rights or obligations under this License
without Meta’s prior written consent; any such assignment or sublicense will be
void and will automatically and immediately terminate this License.

b. You may make a reasonable number of copies of the Documentation solely for
use in connection with the license to the Software granted above.

c. The grant of rights expressly set forth in this Section 1 (License Grant)
are the complete grant of rights to you in the Software Products, and no other
licenses are granted, whether by waiver, estoppel, implication, equity or
otherwise. Meta and its licensors reserve all rights not expressly granted by
this License.

2. RESTRICTIONS

You will not, and will not permit, assist or cause any third party to:

a. use, modify, copy, reproduce, create derivative works of, or distribute the
Software Products (or any derivative works thereof, works incorporating the
Software Products, or any data produced by the Software), in whole or in part,
for (i) any commercial or production purposes, (ii) military purposes or in the
service of nuclear technology, (iii) purposes of surveillance, including any
research or development relating to surveillance, (iv) biometric processing,
(v) in any manner that infringes, misappropriates, or otherwise violates any
third-party rights, or (vi) in any manner that violates any applicable law,
including any privacy or security laws, rules, regulations, directives, or
governmental requirements (including the General Data Privacy Regulation
(Regulation (EU) 2016/679), the California Consumer Privacy Act, and any and
all laws governing the processing of biometric information), as well as all
amendments and successor laws to any of the foregoing;

b. decompile, disassemble, or reverse-engineer the Software, in whole or in
part;

c. alter or remove copyright and other proprietary notices which appear on or
in the Software Products;

d. utilize any equipment, device, software, or other means to circumvent or
remove any security or protection used by Meta in connection with the Software,
or to circumvent or remove any usage restrictions, or to enable functionality
disabled by Meta; or

e. offer or impose any terms on the Software Products that alter, restrict, or
are inconsistent with the terms of this License.

3. ATTRIBUTION

Together with any copies of the Software Products (as well as derivative works
thereof or works incorporating the Software Products) that you distribute, you
must provide (i) a copy of this License, and (ii) the following attribution
notice: “AV-HuBERT is licensed under the AV-HuBERT license, Copyright (c) Meta
Platforms, Inc. All Rights Reserved.”

4. DISCLAIMERS

THE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” and “WITH ALL FAULTS” WITH NO
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. META EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER BY STATUTE, CUSTOM,
USAGE OR OTHERWISE AS TO ANY MATTERS RELATED TO THE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OR
NON-INFRINGEMENT. META MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS THAT THE SOFTWARE
PRODUCTS WILL BE ERROR FREE OR FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS, OR
PRODUCE ANY PARTICULAR RESULTS.

5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL META BE LIABLE TO YOU
(A) UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE,
STRICT LIABILITY, WARRANTY, OR OTHERWISE UNDER THIS LICENSE, OR (B) FOR ANY
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR SPECIAL DAMAGES OR
LOST PROFITS, EVEN IF META HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
THE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS, THEIR CONSTITUENT COMPONENTS, AND ANY OUTPUT
(COLLECTIVELY, “SOFTWARE MATERIALS”) ARE NOT DESIGNED OR INTENDED FOR USE IN
ANY APPLICATION OR SITUATION WHERE FAILURE OR FAULT OF THE SOFTWARE MATERIALS
COULD REASONABLY BE ANTICIPATED TO LEAD TO SERIOUS INJURY OF ANY PERSON,
INCLUDING POTENTIAL DISCRIMINATION OR VIOLATION OF AN INDIVIDUAL’S PRIVACY
RIGHTS, OR TO SEVERE PHYSICAL, PROPERTY, OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE (EACH, A
“HIGH-RISK USE”). IF YOU ELECT TO USE ANY OF THE SOFTWARE MATERIALS FOR A
HIGH-RISK USE, YOU DO SO AT YOUR OWN RISK. YOU AGREE TO DESIGN AND IMPLEMENT
APPROPRIATE DECISION-MAKING AND RISK-MITIGATION PROCEDURES AND POLICIES IN
CONNECTION WITH A HIGH-RISK USE SUCH THAT EVEN IF THERE IS A FAILURE OR FAULT
IN ANY OF THE SOFTWARE MATERIALS, THE SAFETY OF PERSONS OR PROPERTY AFFECTED BY
THE ACTIVITY STAYS AT A LEVEL THAT IS REASONABLE, APPROPRIATE, AND LAWFUL FOR
THE FIELD OF THE HIGH-RISK USE.

6. TERMINATION; SURVIVAL

a. This License will automatically terminate upon any breach by you of the
terms of this License.

b. We may terminate this License, in whole or in part, at any time upon notice
(including electronic) to you.

c. The following sections survive termination of this License: 2
(Restrictions), 3 (Attribution), 4 (Disclaimers), 5 (Limitation on Liability),
6 (Termination; Survival), 7 (Third Party Materials), 8 (Trademarks), 9
(Applicable Law; Dispute Resolution), and 10 (Miscellaneous).

7. THIRD PARTY MATERIALS

The Software Products may contain third-party software or other components
(including free and open source software) (all of the foregoing, “Third Party
Materials”), which are subject to the license terms of the respective
third-party licensors. Your dealings or correspondence with third parties and
your use of or interaction with any Third Party Materials are solely between
you and the third party. Meta does not control or endorse, and makes no
representations or warranties regarding, any Third Party Materials, and your
access to and use of such Third Party Materials are at your own risk.

8. TRADEMARKS

Licensee has not been granted any trademark license as part of this License and
may not use any name or mark associated with Meta without the prior written
permission of Meta, except to the extent necessary to make the reference
required by the “ATTRIBUTION” section of this Agreement.

9. APPLICABLE LAW; DISPUTE RESOLUTION

This License will be governed and construed under the laws of the State of
California without regard to conflicts of law provisions. Any suit or
proceeding arising out of or relating to this License will be brought in the
federal or state courts, as applicable, in San Mateo County, California, and
each party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction and venue of such courts.

10. MISCELLANEOUS

If any provision or part of a provision of this License is unlawful, void or
unenforceable, that provision or part of the provision is deemed severed from
this License, and will not affect the validity and enforceability of any
remaining provisions. The failure of Meta to exercise or enforce any right or
provision of this License will not operate as a waiver of such right or
provision. This License does not confer any third-party beneficiary rights upon
any other person or entity. This License, together with the Documentation,
contains the entire understanding between you and Meta regarding the subject
matter of this License, and supersedes all other written or oral agreements and
understandings between you and Meta regarding such subject matter. No change or
addition to any provision of this License will be binding unless it is in
writing and signed by an authorized representative of both you and Meta.
